[ADD] Subscriptions: SDD Payment Provider (#10815)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/subscriptions/payment_providers/sdd.rst

SEPA, or Single Euro Payments Area, is a payment-integration initiative of the European Union for
simplifying bank transfers denominated in euros.

SEPA Direct Debit (|SDD|) is a payment provider that allows future payments to be collected from
customers' bank accounts by signing a mandate. This allows recurring payments to be automatically
gathered and processed using |sdd|.

.. important::
   |sdd| requires the **Accounting** app to be installed to create direct debit mandates.

.. _subscriptions/sepa-sdd-configuration:

Configuration
-------------

.. important::
   Before using |sdd|, the database must be configured to allow the use of Euros on sales orders. To
   do so, a :doc:`pricelist <../../point_of_sale/pricing/pricelists>` must be created for Euros.
   This can be done using the **Sales** or **Point of Sales** apps. From either app, navigate to
   :menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings --> Pricelists` and click :icon:`fa-arrow-right`
   :guilabel:`Pricelists`. Click the :guilabel:`New` button to open a new pricelist form. Add a
   name for the pricelist in the top field, then set the drop-down menu next to :guilabel:`Currency`

>    to `EUR`. Click :icon:`fa-cloud-upload` (Save manually) to save the pricelist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to `EUR`. Click :icon:`fa-cloud-upload` :guilabel:`(save manually)` to save the pricelist.
```

   .. image:: sdd/euro-pricelist.png
      :align: center
      :alt: A pricelist using EUR as the currency.

To use the wire transfer payment method, first ensure the |sdd| payment method is enabled in
Settings. This can be done by navigating to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration -->
Settings --> SEPA Direct Deposit (SDD)` and ticking the checkbox. Then, set a creditor identifier
number in the field labeled :guilabel:`Creditor Identifier`.

.. tip::
   The company using |sdd| must have a creditor identifier to issue a SEPA Direct Debit payment

>    request. If using Test Mode, use the test creditor identifier number: `DE98ZZZ09999999999`.

Author: @Felicious this number came from one of the Subscriptions experts in Belgium, but I also see it listed here publicly: https://www.bundesbank.de/en/tasks/payment-systems/services/sepa/creditor-identifier/creditor-identifier-626704

In this case, please let me know if I should still remove it. Thanks!

>    request. If using Test Mode, use the test creditor identifier number: `DE98ZZZ09999999999`.

Reviewer: Yay! Since it's listed on the public payment provider website, we should leave it in, imo (: You're so thorough!

In the :guilabel:`Messages` tab, the :guilabel:`Pending Message` field can be used to add a message
that will be displayed if the order remains pending after the payment is processed. By default,
this field contains the default message: :guilabel:`Please make an unique payment transfer to
confirm the SEPA mandate.`

.. image:: sdd/sdd-payment-provider.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The SEPA Direct Debit Payment Provider form.

Once all necessary configuration settings are complete, the :icon:`fa-eye-slash`
:guilabel:`Unpublished` smart button located at the top of the page automatically changes to
:icon:`fa-globe` :guilabel:`Published` to show the |sdd| payment option is now visible to customers.
Only keep the payment method published if payments are ready to be received.

.. tip::
   It is possible to keep the payment method enabled, but **not** visible to customers, until
   payments are ready to be received. To do this, set the smart button to :icon:`fa-eye-slash`
   :guilabel:`Unpublished` after setting the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Enabled`.

.. note::
   The |sdd| configuration menu can also be accessed by navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app

>    --> Website --> Shop --> Configure SEPA Direct Debit`.

Reviewer: I wasn't able to find the settings in the Website section? Perhaps I'm missing some configs?
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/64cf4102-5a59-4cb8-afbc-5afbc87a5232)

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c78c748-09b5-4287-94f4-c3bc1c19d040)

Reviewer: Were you possibly referring to this?

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a738f03c-28a4-46bb-8c9e-8d84aee135cb)

If so, the way we'd describe this place using the marketing team's style is:
```suggestion
.. note::
   The |sdd| configuration menu can also be accessed by navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app
   --> Website`, and in the :guilabel:`Shop - Payment` section, click the :guilabel:`Configure SEPA Direct Debit` button.
```

Test mode
~~~~~~~~~

The |sdd| payment method can be tested before it is accessed by customers. First, ensure the test
creditor identifier is :ref:`configured <subscriptions/sepa-sdd-configuration>` in **Settings**
before continuing.

.. warning::
   It is recommended to use the :guilabel:`Test Mode` setting on a duplicate (or test) database to
   avoid potential issues with invoice numbering.

Next, select the :guilabel:`Test Mode` option in the :guilabel:`State` field on the form. Upon
selecting :guilabel:`Test Mode`, an orange :guilabel:`Test mode` banner appears in the upper-right
corner of the form.

.. note::
   By default, the payment provider remains :guilabel:`Unpublished` in :guilabel:`Test Mode`, so it
   is not visible to visitors.

> Navigate to :menuselection:`Sales --> Orders --> Quotations` and click the :guilabel:`New` button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations` and click the :guilabel:`New` button
```

> to create a new sales order. Select or create a fake customer, or add yourself, in the field next to

Reviewer: You're right that the customer is fake but we don't need to mention that, haha. It's enough to tell the reader to fill out the Customer field
```suggestion
to create a new sales order. Select a
```

:guilabel:`Customer`. Select any pay period in the drop-down menu next to :guilabel:`Recurring Plan`
and select the pricelist using EUR in the drop-down menu next to :guilabel:`Pricelist`. Finally,
select a subscription product in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the sales order.

Next, confirm the sales order by clicking the :guilabel:`Confirm` button, then click the
:guilabel:`Preview` button to open a preview of the customer invoice. Scroll down to the
:guilabel:`Anticipate payment` section to find the SEPA Direct Debit payment method.

.. tip::
   It can be confirmed that test mode is still enabled if the :icon:`fa-eye-slash` (unpublished) and
   :icon:`fa-exclamation-triangle` (test mode) icons are present next to :guilabel:`SEPA Direct
   Debit`.

   .. image:: sdd/sdd-anticipated.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The view of the SEPA Direct Debit payment method presented to customers at checkout.

> Next, enter a test IBAN number, such as `GB33BUKB20201555555555`, and click :guilabel:`Pay`. Return

Reviewer: Thank you for providing this payment number so us reviewers can test! :D Like the other test credential I pointed out, I think it's best to remove it before merging the PR. However, for reviewing purposes, it's really convenient that you put it here (:

Author: I got this test iban number from here: https://www.iban.com/testibans

In this case since it's not Odoo-specific and comes from IBAN, is it better to leave the number in or just let customers find a test number on their own?

Reviewer: Amazing! Since it's from IBAN, leave it in :D

payments appears. Tick the checkbox next to every payment to be included in the batch, or tick the
checkbox at the top of the list to select all entries.

Next, click :guilabel:`Create Batch`. A new batch payment form appears with the selected payments
added to the list in the :guilabel:`Batch Content` tab.

.. image:: sdd/batch-payment-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The batch payment form containing the selected payments.

This form also contains optional fields to customize the batch payment:

- :guilabel:`Bank`: Select the bank the payment is sent to.
- :guilabel:`Date`: Set the current date.
- :guilabel:`Reference`: Set a custom reference number for the payment.
- :guilabel:`Required collection date`: Date when the company expects to receive the payment of
  this batch.
- :guilabel:`Batch Booking`: Request batch booking from the bank for the related bank statements.
- :guilabel:`SDD Scheme`: The B2B scheme is an optional scheme, offered exclusively to business
  payers. Some banks/businesses might not accept B2B |sdd|.

Once the payment is configured, click :guilabel:`Validate` to generate the `.xml` file, which

> appears in the chatter. Finally, click the :icon:`fa-download` (download) icon next to the file in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
appears in the chatter. Finally, click the :icon:`fa-download` :guilabel:`(download)` icon next to the file in
```

confirm the SEPA mandate.`

.. image:: sdd/sdd-payment-provider.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The SEPA Direct Debit Payment Provider form.

Once all necessary configuration settings are complete, the :icon:`fa-eye-slash`
:guilabel:`Unpublished` smart button located at the top of the page automatically changes to
:icon:`fa-globe` :guilabel:`Published` to show the |sdd| payment option is now visible to customers.
Only keep the payment method published if payments are ready to be received.

.. tip::
   It is possible to keep the payment method enabled, but **not** visible to customers, until
   payments are ready to be received. To do this, set the smart button to :icon:`fa-eye-slash`
   :guilabel:`Unpublished` after setting the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Enabled`.

.. note::
   The |sdd| configuration menu can also be accessed by navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app
   --> Website`, and in the :guilabel:`Shop - Payment` section, click the :guilabel:`Configure SEPA
   Direct Debit` button.

Test mode
~~~~~~~~~

The |sdd| payment method can be tested before it is accessed by customers. First, ensure the test

> creditor identifier is :ref:`configured <subscriptions/sepa-sdd-configuration>` in **Settings**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
creditor identifier is :ref:`configured <subscriptions/sepa-sdd-configuration>`
```

before continuing.

.. warning::
   It is recommended to use the :guilabel:`Test Mode` setting on a duplicate (or test) database to
   avoid potential issues with invoice numbering.

Next, select the :guilabel:`Test Mode` option in the :guilabel:`State` field on the form. Upon
selecting :guilabel:`Test Mode`, an orange :guilabel:`Test mode` banner appears in the upper-right
corner of the form.

.. note::
   By default, the payment provider remains :guilabel:`Unpublished` in :guilabel:`Test Mode`, so it
   is not visible to visitors.

> Navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations` and click the :guilabel:`New`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations`, and click the :guilabel:`New`
```

> button to create a new sales order. Select a :guilabel:`Customer`. Select any pay period in the
> drop-down menu next to :guilabel:`Recurring Plan` and select the pricelist using EUR in the
> drop-down menu next to :guilabel:`Pricelist`. Finally, select a subscription product in the
> :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the sales order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
button to create a new sales order.

Select a :guilabel:`Customer`. Then, select any pay period in the drop-down menu next to :guilabel:`Recurring
Plan`, and select the pricelist using EUR in the drop-down menu next to :guilabel:`Pricelist`.

Finally, select a subscription product in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the sales order.
```

Next, confirm the sales order by clicking the :guilabel:`Confirm` button, then click the
:guilabel:`Preview` button to open a preview of the customer invoice. Scroll down to the
:guilabel:`Anticipate payment` section to find the SEPA Direct Debit payment method.

.. tip::
   It can be confirmed that test mode is still enabled if the :icon:`fa-eye-slash` (unpublished) and

>    :icon:`fa-exclamation-triangle` (test mode) icons are present next to :guilabel:`SEPA Direct
>    Debit`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :icon:`fa-exclamation-triangle` (test mode) icons are present next to SEPA Direct Debit payment method.
```
opting to remove the GUI here because that isn't showing up on the UI

![Screenshot 2024-08-21 102426](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87378f3b-ca86-4f9a-9d02-59b8fb17b4b6)

   .. image:: sdd/sdd-anticipated.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The view of the SEPA Direct Debit payment method presented to customers at checkout.

Next, enter a test IBAN number, such as `GB33BUKB20201555555555`, and click :guilabel:`Pay`. Return

> to the sales order in the **Sales** app and confirm the :guilabel:`Pending transaction` tag is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the sales order in the **Sales** app, and confirm the :guilabel:`In Progress` tag is
```
I'm seeing that as 'In Progress' -- might be worth a quick double-check during your revisions...

present on the sales order form. At this point, the flow is complete.

> To re-enable normal function after testing, change the :guilabel:`State` setting to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To re-enable normal function after testing, navigate back to the *SEPA Direct Debit* form, and change the *State* setting to
```

> :guilabel:`Enabled`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Enabled*.
```
changing this and the above to italics because it is being alluded to, and not shown directly on the screen/UI

.. _subscriptions/sepa-sdd-payment:

Pay by SEPA Direct Debit
------------------------

> Once |sdd| has been :ref:`configured <subscriptions/sepa-sdd-configuration>` and enabled, |sdd| will
> appear as a payment method during checkout in **eCommerce** and as a payment method on invoices in
> the **Sales** apps. The option will be presented to customers and prompt them to enter their IBAN
> number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once |sdd| has been :ref:`configured <subscriptions/sepa-sdd-configuration>` and enabled, |sdd| appears
as a payment method during checkout in **eCommerce**, and as a payment method on invoices in
the **Sales** app. The option is presented to customers, and prompts them to enter their IBAN
number.
```

Once a customer clicks *Pay*, the sales order is marked with a :guilabel:`Pending transaction` tag
until the mandate has been closed.

Mandates automatically close after the end date is reached. If the *End date* field is not set, the
mandate remains in an *Active* state until it is *Closed* or *Revoked*.

|sdd| payments can also be registered manually by navigating to the desired invoice and clicking the

> :guilabel:`Register Payment` button. Next, select :guilabel:`SEPA Direct Debit` as the payment
> method and click the :guilabel:`Create Payment` button. The invoice now displays a green
> :guilabel:`In Payment` banner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Register Payment` button. Next, select :guilabel:`SEPA Direct Debit` as the :guilabel:`Payment
Method`, and click the :guilabel:`Create Payment` button. The invoice now displays a green
:guilabel:`In Payment` banner.
```

.. tip::
   To validate a successful |sdd| payment, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Customers

>    --> Payments` and look for the entry in the list, along with a :guilabel:`Posted` tag in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   --> Payments`, and look for the entry in the list, along with a :guilabel:`Posted` tag in the
```

=================
SEPA Direct Debit
=================

.. |sdd| replace:: :abbr:`SDD (SEPA Direct Debit)`

*SEPA*, or Single Euro Payments Area, is a payment-integration initiative of the European Union for
simplifying bank transfers denominated in euros.

*SEPA Direct Debit (|sdd|)* is a payment provider that allows future payments to be collected from
customers' bank accounts by signing a mandate. This allows recurring payments to be automatically
gathered and processed using |sdd|.

.. important::

>    To create direct debit mandates, the **Accounting** app **must** be installed.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to link to this section (if applicable) :)
```suggestion
   To create :ref:`direct debit mandates <subscriptions/sepa-sdd-payment>`, the **Accounting** app
   **must** be installed.
```

.. _subscriptions/sepa-sdd-configuration:

Configuration
-------------

.. important::
   Before using |sdd|, the database must be configured to allow the use of Euros on sales orders. To
   do so, a :doc:`pricelist <../../point_of_sale/pricing/pricelists>` must be created for Euros.

   This can be done using the **Sales** or **Point of Sales** apps. From either app, navigate to
   :menuselection:`Configuration --> Settings`.

   In the :guilabel:`Pricing` section, underneath the :guilabel:`Pricelists` feature, click
   :icon:`fa-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Pricelists`. Then, click the :guilabel:`New` button to open a
   new pricelist form. Add a name for the pricelist in the top field, then set the drop-down menu
   next to :guilabel:`Currency` to :guilabel:`EUR`.

> 
>    .. image:: sdd/euro-pricelist.png
>       :align: center
>       :alt: A pricelist using EUR as the currency.

Reviewer 3: I think this image (`sdd/euro-pricelist.png`) can be removed, as the referenced Pricelist doc has a very similar image
```suggestion
```

To use the wire transfer payment method, first ensure the |sdd| payment method is enabled. To do so,
navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll to the
:guilabel:`Customer Payments` section, and tick the :guilabel:`SEPA Direct Deposit (SDD)` checkbox.
Then, set a creditor identifier number in the field labeled, :guilabel:`Creditor Identifier`. Then,
click :guilabel:`Save`.

.. tip::
   The company using |sdd| must have a creditor identifier to issue a SEPA Direct Debit payment

>    request. If using Test Mode, use the test creditor identifier number: `DE98ZZZ09999999999`, and
>    click :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer 3: Also suggestion to link to this section, otherwise please remove the capitalization :)
```suggestion
   request. If using :ref:`test mode <subscriptions/sepa-sdd-test-mode>`, use the test creditor
   identifier number: `DE98ZZZ09999999999`, and click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

confirm the SEPA mandate.`

.. image:: sdd/sdd-payment-provider.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The SEPA Direct Debit Payment Provider form.

Once all necessary configuration settings are complete, the :icon:`fa-eye-slash`
:guilabel:`Unpublished` smart button, located at the top of the page automatically changes to
:icon:`fa-globe` :guilabel:`Published` to show the |sdd| payment option is now visible to customers.
Only keep the payment method published if payments are ready to be received.

.. tip::
   It is possible to keep the payment method enabled, but **not** visible to customers, until
   payments are ready to be received. To do this, set the smart button to :icon:`fa-eye-slash`
   :guilabel:`Unpublished` after setting the :guilabel:`State` to :guilabel:`Enabled`.

.. note::
   The |sdd| configuration menu can also be accessed by navigating to :menuselection:`Settings app
   --> Website`, and in the :guilabel:`Shop - Payment` section, click the :icon:`fa-arrow-right`
   :guilabel:`View other providers` button. Then, click the |sdd| card. Alternatively, navigate to
   :menuselection:`Website app --> Configuration --> Settings` to access the same button.

> 

Reviewer 3: If implementing prior suggestion 
```suggestion

.. _subscriptions/sepa-sdd-test-mode:

```

   avoid potential issues with invoice numbering.

Next, select the :guilabel:`Test Mode` option in the :guilabel:`State` field on the form. Upon
selecting :guilabel:`Test Mode`, an orange :guilabel:`Test mode` banner appears in the upper-right
corner of the form.

.. note::
   By default, the payment provider remains :guilabel:`Unpublished` in :guilabel:`Test Mode`, so it
   is not visible to visitors.

Navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Quotations`, and click the :guilabel:`New`
button to create a new sales order.

Select a :guilabel:`Customer`. Select any pay period in the drop-down menu next to
:guilabel:`Recurring Plan` and select the pricelist using EUR in the drop-down menu next to
:guilabel:`Pricelist`.

Finally, select a subscription product in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab of the sales order.

Next, confirm the sales order by clicking the :guilabel:`Confirm` button, then click the
:guilabel:`Preview` button to open a preview of the customer invoice. Scroll down to the
:guilabel:`Anticipate payment` section to find the SEPA Direct Debit payment method.

.. tip::

>    It can be confirmed that test mode is still enabled if the :icon:`fa-eye-slash` (unpublished) and
>    :icon:`fa-exclamation-triangle` (test mode) icons are present next to SEPA Direct Debit.

Reviewer 3: Icon descriptors need guilabel :)
```suggestion
   It can be confirmed that test mode is still enabled if the :icon:`fa-eye-slash`
   :guilabel:`(unpublished)` and :icon:`fa-exclamation-triangle` :guilabel:`(test mode)` icons are
   present next to :guilabel:`SEPA Direct Debit` payment method.
```

   .. image:: sdd/sdd-anticipated.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The view of the SEPA Direct Debit payment method presented to customers at checkout.

Next, enter a test IBAN number, such as `GB33BUKB20201555555555`, and click :guilabel:`Pay`. Return
to the sales order in the **Sales** app, and confirm the :guilabel:`In Progress` tag is present on
the sales order form. At this point, the flow is complete.

> To re-enable normal function after testing, navigate back to the *SEPA Direct Debit* form, and
> change the *State* setting to :guilabel:`Enabled`.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to include the navigation instructions, just to be thorough
```suggestion
To re-enable normal function after testing, navigate back to the *SEPA Direct Debit* form by going
to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Configuration --> Payment Providers` and change the
:guilabel:`State` setting to :guilabel:`Enabled`.
```

Once |sdd| has been :ref:`configured <subscriptions/sepa-sdd-configuration>` and enabled, |sdd|
appears as a payment method during checkout in **eCommerce**, and as a payment method on invoices in
the **Sales** app. The option is presented to customers, and prompts them to enter their IBAN
number.

Once a customer clicks *Pay*, the sales order is marked with a *In Progress* tag until the mandate
has been closed.

Mandates automatically close after the end date is reached. If the *End date* field is not set, the
mandate remains in an *Active* state until it is *Closed* or *Revoked*.

|sdd| payments can also be registered manually by navigating to the desired invoice and clicking the
:guilabel:`Register Payment` button. Next, select :guilabel:`SEPA Direct Debit` as the
:guilabel:`Payment Method` and click the :guilabel:`Create Payment` button. The invoice now displays
a green :guilabel:`In Payment` banner.

.. tip::
   To validate a successful |sdd| payment, navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting app --> Customers
   --> Payments`, and look for the entry in the list, along with a :guilabel:`Posted` tag in the
   :guilabel:`Status` column.

Submit payments
---------------

> All |sdd| payments can be processed at once by uploading an `.xml` file containing a batch of all
> posted |sdd| payments to an online banking interface. To generate this file, navigate to

Reviewer 3: Completely optional- but I like to use the :file: role for these :)
```suggestion
All |sdd| payments can be processed at once by uploading an :file:`.xml` file containing a batch of
all posted |sdd| payments to an online banking interface. To generate this file, navigate to
```

payments appears. Tick the checkbox next to every payment to be included in the batch, or tick the
checkbox at the top of the list to select all entries at once.

Next, click :guilabel:`Create Batch`. A new batch payment form appears with the selected payments
added to the list in the :guilabel:`Batch Content` tab.

.. image:: sdd/batch-payment-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The batch payment form containing the selected payments.

This form also contains optional fields to customize the batch payment:

- :guilabel:`Bank`: Select the bank the payment is sent to.
- :guilabel:`Date`: Set the current date.
- :guilabel:`Reference`: Set a custom reference number for the payment.
- :guilabel:`Required collection date`: Set a date when the company expects to receive the payment
  of this batch.
- :guilabel:`Batch Booking`: Request batch booking from the bank for the related bank statements.
- :guilabel:`SDD Scheme`: The B2B scheme is an optional scheme, offered exclusively to business
  payers. Some banks/businesses might not accept B2B |sdd|.

Once the payment is configured, click :guilabel:`Validate` to generate the `.xml` file, which

> appears in the chatter. Finally, click the :icon:`fa-download` :guilabel:`(download)` icon next to

Reviewer 3: Again optional
```suggestion
Once the payment is configured, click :guilabel:`Validate` to generate the :file:`.xml` file, which
```
